just come to a viewing platform next to
a bridge over the 8c because we're
heading into the city of Nanjing
in the 1930s this city then known as
Nanking was invaded by the Japanese and
carried out a notorious massacre here
for nearly a hundred years earlier it
also been invaded by the British
the eighteen hundred's china lost the
so-called opium wars this was a
particularly shameful episode in British
and Western history when we went to war
against China basically because we
wanted to have the right to sell the
Chinese people drugs
as a result of the opium wars this city
many others like it were open to foreign
trade with large areas effectively under
British control Christian missionaries
also began arriving in the country and
it was said Christianity came here on a
cannonball
[Music]
British and American missionaries used
the yangtze to access the interior of
the country
[Music]
in the second half of the 20th century
Christianity was ruthlessly suppressed
by China's communist leaders but it's
now making an extraordinary comeback
when the Communist Party took over in
1949 they were thought to be about 1
million Christians in the country today
there are anything up to 100 million
Christians in China more Christians in
fact than there are members of the
Communist Party by some estimates there
could be 400 million Christians in China
in 30 years time making it the biggest
Christian nation on earth
[Music]
traffic we'd arrived in Nanjing on
Easter Sunday and we were heading to a
newly built church to see this
phenomenon for ourselves during the
traffic tear for the church
this is a traffic jam for people trying
to get to church let's walk
hang on that can't all be a church the
whole thing yeah it's like a stadium
Russia
[Music]
this brand-new church can hold up to
5,000 people most of the seats were
taken
[Music]
the service included a dramatic
reenactment of the entire Easter story
with some colorful dancing thrown in for
good measure
[Music]
now I see what it's all about
it's now possible to be both a Christian
and a member of the Communist Party
you